Validate your webhook endpoint
Zoom requires Webhook validation for all webhooks created or modified after Oct 23, 2022. All webhooks created prior to this date do not require validation unless you modify them.

Zoom requires that you manually trigger webhook validation when you add a new webhook or make changes to an existing one. Subsequently, Zoom automatically revalidates webhooks every 72 hours.

Zoom uses a challenge-response check (CRC) for webhook validation. When a CRC occurs, Zoom makes a POST request to your endpoint with a challenge request body. After your endpoint receives the request, your app needs to respond with the challenge response within 3 seconds.

To trigger the initial CRC validation, click Validate under the Event Notification Endpoint URL on the Feature page for your app. See Revalidation for revalidation details.

Zoom webhook validate
You won't be able to save your changes until after Zoom validates your endpoint.

See the following steps to implement the challenge-response check flow.

Receive the challenge (webhook request body)
The webhook request body includes the following properties:

Key	Value Type	Value Description
event	string	The type of the webhook event, which will be "endpoint.url_validation"
payload	object	Contains a property with the plainToken value, the string to hash.
event_ts	number	The timestamp of the webhook event.
Here's an example:

{
  "payload": {
    "plainToken": "qgg8vlvZRS6UYooatFL8Aw"
  },
  "event_ts": 1654503849680,
  "event": "endpoint.url_validation"
}
Hash the plainToken
Once you receive the request body, create a HMAC SHA-256
 hash. Set your webhook's secret token as the secret (salt), and the plainToken value as the string to hash. Output in hex format.

Create the response JSON object
Create a JSON object with a key of "plainToken" with a value of the plainToken from the request body, and a key of "encryptedToken" with a value of the hashed plainToken. For example:

{
  "plainToken": "qgg8vlvZRS6UYooatFL8Aw",
  "encryptedToken": "23a89b634c017e5364a1c8d9c8ea909b60dd5599e2bb04bb1558d9c3a121faa5"
}
Respond with the response JSON object
Respond with the response JSON within 3 seconds with a 200 or 204 HTTP response code.

When Zoom successfully validates the challenge response from your webhook endpoint URL, you'll see a validated message under the Event Notification Endpoint URL. If validation fails, you'll see a failed to validate message. Once you successfully complete validation, click Save.

Zoom webhook validate success
Here is an example in Node.js:

const crypto = require('crypto')

// Webhook request event type is a challenge-response check
if(request.body.event === 'endpoint.url_validation') {
  const hashForValidate = crypto.createHmac('sha256', ZOOM_WEBHOOK_SECRET_TOKEN).update(request.body.payload.plainToken).digest('hex')

  response.status(200)
  response.json({
    "plainToken": request.body.payload.plainToken,
    "encryptedToken": hashForValidate
  })
}
See the Webhook sample app for an example implementation
.

Revalidation
Validation and revalidation applies to any new or edited webhooks starting in August 2022.
Your production and development webhook URLs will be revalidated periodically every 72 hours. Zoom will send notification emails to the account owner associated with your apps if the URL fails the revalidation, following this schedule:

First notification email after a total of 2 consecutive failed revalidations.
Second notification email after a total of 4 consecutive failed revalidations.
If the revalidation check fails 6 times in a row, Zoom will stop sending event notifications to the webhook URL and disable it. To enable the webhook URL to receive event notifications again, see the following steps:

Fix the issue that caused your webhook URL validation to fail.
If you changed the URL, update the Event Notification Endpoint URL on the Feature page on the Zoom App Marketplace.
Click Validate to manually re-validate the URL. If successful, you should see that it is valid.
Click Save to save changes. If this is a private app not shared on the Marketplace, Zoom will re-enable your webhook after this step.
If your app is a published app on the Zoom Marketplace, resubmit your app for review. After the review is completed, Zoom will re-enable your webhook.
Notification delivery
Your webhook endpoint URL should respond with either a 200 or a 204 HTTP status code within three seconds after receiving a webhook request in order for Zoom to consider the notification was successfully delivered.

Unsuccessful delivery
For any unsuccessful notification deliveries, Zoom attempts to deliver the webhook three times:

The first attempt is sent 5 minutes after the initial delivery attempt.
A second attempt is sent 20 minutes after the first attempt.
A third attempt is sent 60 minutes after the second attempt.
If a 200 or a 204 response is received after any retry attempt, then Zoom considers the notification was successfully delivered.

However, if Zoom does not receive a 200 or a 204 response after three attempts, then no further webhooks for that event will be sent.

If you have successfully validated your webhook endpoint, but you are not receiving certain events you have selected, toggle the webhook feature on and off and try again.

Delivery latency
The event_ts response is included in the payload of all event notifications. This represents the timestamp for when the associated event occurred.

You can determine the latency in webhook delivery by calculating the difference between the delivery timestamp and the value of the event_ts.